# GDP-Forecast-Regression-Trees-and-Random-Forest-using-R

The purpose of this report is to fit various Regression Tree (RT) models, as well as Random Forest (RF) models to forecast the US real GDP growth. The models use quarterly times series that are provided by the Federal Reserve Economic Data starting from the first quarter of 1959. We use time series of the unemployment rate, manufac- turing industry capacity, inflation, Federal Funds rate, as well as stock market indexes and measures of liquidity in the economy (M1 real). We start fitting a RT model with lagged information of the GDP growth. Then, lags of the six additional macroeconomic indicators are added to create a new RT model to forecast GDP growth. In the same way, RF models are implemented, one using only lagged information of the GDP and another using lagged information of all variables. For all models we make one-quarter- ahead predictions with all information available until the forecasted value. After applying the methods outlined above and comparing the forecasting errors with the ones found for the autoregressive model AR(1) and vector autoregressive models VAR(1) and VAR(3) in previous work, we conclude that the model with the lowest forecasting error is the RF that uses lagged information of all variables. During the studied time period the RF model gives reasonable predictions of expansions and recessions of the economy, however it also fails to predict extreme observations, which diminishes its performance. For this model, using the permutation variable importance method we found that lag 7 and 8 of FEDFUNDS followed by lag 9 of CUMFNS and lag 2 of UMRATESTx are the variables that improve the forecasting error of RF.

The used statistical methods as welll as the main resoults can be seen in the .PDF file "Jorge Duran_229487_P2.pdf". The R code used in this report can be found in "Jorge Duran_229487_P2.R".
